---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The difficult things will always be difficult
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2016-02-06
labels:
  - Engineering
---

## About Javascript
Being a total amateur in Javascript, I still have a lot of fresh impression going around in my head. One thing I can cleary declare is that; although I like how Javasctipt can construct a website, *I don't like Javascript as a language at all, at least for now.*

I have learned how to code mainly in Java, C, and C++. Comparing to these languages, there are couple things that I would not prefer in Javascript. First, Javascript is weakly typed. Even working on codes for only couple of weeks so far, this really bothers me. It is because I am already so used to explicitly specify the datatype for *all* variables. In my oipinion, specifying the datatype really helps coders to find bugs. If there is a variable, that variable has to keep the datatype, and should have somewhere in code where coder can refer to the datatype of the variable. However, what Javascript allows coder to do is to change the datatype of a variable or not to specify the variable's datatype anywhere in a code. What if. by mistake, a programmer assigns a value to a variable whose datatype is not appropriate for the value? The result will be unexpected to the programmer, yet the code compiles perfectly and won't show the programmer any error message. Just imagining this happening to me is enough to discourage me from using Javascript.

Another feature that I do not appreciate is the return type. As far as I understand from introductory tutorials of Javascript, functions in Javascript do not have to have a specific return type. This allows programmers to return values that are dependent on condition\: sometimes it can be string, and sometimes it can be an integer. I found this so confusing and vulnerable to bugs. I want functions to be specific, so that I am sure, no matter what, that the function always returns a value whose datatype is consistent.

## Other materials in this course
